- [Narrator] Spring Data rest
is a module for exposing Spring Data repositories
as hypermedia-driven restful web services.
And it's actually pretty amazing.
Similar to Spring Data commons,
which extrapolates the underlying backend
data store services from a CrudRepository,
Spring Data REST exposes those same repositories
as web services with no coding
or extra configuration.
At application startup,
Spring Data REST finds all the available
Spring Data repositories,
creates an endpoint that matches that entity name,
appends an s to the endpoint,
and exposes the operations
as RESTful Resource APIs over HTTP.
So what is the mapping between a RESTful API
and its CrudRepository method.
HTTP GET of the resource maps to CrudRepository findAll.
The resource is what we call the endpoint
and it usually has the same name as the entity.
HTTP GET of the resource/<id> maps to find one.
HTTP GET of the resource/search/querymethod
maps to the query method.
HTTP POST of the resource,
which creates a new object,
maps the CrudRepository save method.
HTTP PUT or PATCH to the resource <id>,
which updates the object,
also maps to CrudRepository.save.
HTTP DELETE of the resource <id>
maps to CrudRepository.delete.
In Chapter 601, Exercise Files,
there is the University Application.
It is exactly the same as Chapter 4's University Project,
except I added the Spring Boot startup dependency
and the pom.xml and then rebuilt the project.
So selecting University Application,
that's the main application.
I run that and then I'll expand the console
so we can see the messages that come up.
Notice that we see new startup messages
including resource mapping
and Tomcat started on port(s) 8080.
University is now a Tomcat-enabled web application
ready to receive requests on port 8080.
And now I'm gonna use postman
to invoke the APIs of this application.
So I'm going to use postman
and then, as a helper, I'm going to import
from 601 Exercise Files, REST.postman_collection.json.
And this is going to help me exercise the APIs.
First, we have a GET from local host 8080
and Send that.
And we see links to Department, Course, Staff
and Student Resources, followed by a profile
which is auto-generated API documentation.
Now let's dig into the students endpoint
and do a GET on students
and we see we have Jane Doe, and her ID is 1.
John Doe, ID of 2.
Mike Smith and Ally Kim.
Four students in the database
and the ID is appended to the endpoint URL.
Now let's say we want to create a new student.
We'll use HTTP POST to the student's resource
and the pay load of the POST has the json format
of the student data.
So we have a new student.
The first name is Patrick.
The last name is Joseph.
He is full-time and he's 20.
So we send that
and we get a created HTTP 201 status code back.
And let's just look at the body of the response.
Just make that a little bigger.
And we see that now Student / 5
is the endpoint URL for Patrick Joseph.
So let's get that, Student / 5.
Doing a search on /5 gets Patrick Joseph back.
Now, using PATCH,
let's say we want to change his age to 22, so HTTP PATCH.
Send that, and we see his age is 22 in the response.
And even doing a GET on that response,
we'll see that he is now 22.
And now let's say we want to delete him altogether.
So HTTP DELETE of Student 5.
That's okay response back.
There was no package body but it's still an okay status.
And just to make sure,
let's go back and try to get Student 5 again.
And we get a 404 Not Found,
which is what we expected.
Now, there is the search resource
off of the student resource endpoint.
So here we see all of our methods,
our query methods off of the search resource for student.
So, if I do a search/find Top 3 by Order by Age descending,
that will invoke that query method
on the student repository,
and we get that back.
It's pretty cool, huh?
So this is not perfect out of the box.
We see that if I would try to invoke
Find By Age Less Than,
that would have a query parameter, but let's try it.
And we cannot execute that without some configuration
because there is no automatic mapping
between the parameters of a URL search resource
and a query method parameter.
So either we would have to code that to annotate the method
or whenever we run the application
we have to say at parameters,
and then we could say at the parameter on the URL.
Another problem is with the name generated from the endpoint
is not always the best.
So, for example, the staff repository
it creates an endpoint called Staffs,
which is not proper English.
There's no such word as Staffs.
But that is configurable and we can change that.
And, finally, this one looks really bad.
Whenever I send Courses, it gives back an error message.
Spring Data is complaining
between the two different overloaded Find by Credits method
and so since Spring Data REST doesn't know
how to resolve these overloaded methods
we get an error and so we'd have to do
some annotation or code change to resolve that.
This has been a super quick overview of Spring Data REST.
A whole chapter of Spring Data REST
can be found in my course
Creating your First Spring Boot Microservice with JPA.
And that will give you
a little more in depth information on this.
And, by the way, you want to come back
and stop the application
because otherwise it will run forever
because it's a Tomcat web request.